in the rainforests of Australia the
giant castle is in danger from a feral
invader
March 2018 the BBC's seven worlds one
planet team arrived in northern
Queensland their aim to film one of the
world's largest birds the cassowary
we are in the Daintree rainfall in North
Queensland and it's one of the oldest
patches of rain forests in the world
growing to a height of one and a half
meters and equipped with enormous
dinosaur like clothes cassowaries have
been described as the planet's most
dangerous birds but these feathered
Giants are shy and prefer to stay hidden
in dense tropical rainforest there are
only around 2000 left in Australia to
locate them the team set up a series of
camera traps but instead of cassowaries
they discover another animal that could
threaten the future of the entire forest
there's like eight pigs enough that when
was that we put up loads and camera
traps around the place and most of the
footage we got back were of feral pigs
pigs are not meant to be in this
rainforest they were brought to
Australia as farm animals by European
settlers in the 1700s they soon escaped
and now there are around twenty four
million living feral across the
continent pig damage we see it all over
the place they're trying to find some
food but then doing so they disrupt all
the topsoil so that if it rains heavily
which it does all the time all the soil
washes away and then the trees can't
stand up
so they're basically causing havoc they
also eat all the food
ice can grow massive so there can really
be a threat to our kasseri especially
the Czech
pigs are omnivores as well as stripping
the forests of the fruit the cassowaries
depend on they can eat their eggs and
even their chicks with such a small
population this new threat could see the
cassowary disappear forever from
Australia which would be disastrous for
this ancient rainforest the caster is
crucial for the Daintree rainforest to
survive their keystone species and this
fruit in particular relies on the
cassowary to germinate it goes through
Casarez gut and once it's done that it
is obviously food out and it is able to
grow in its own little pile of calorie
fertilizer it's estimated that over a
hundred plant species here depend almost
entirely on the cassowary as their
method of seed dispersal they can eat
fruits that are you know this big they
walk kilometers in a day so they take
them really far away and I have really
gentle digestive system
[Music]
so if the cassowaries are at risk all
the other plants and animals that rely
on them are also in danger invasive
species are now the number one threat to
Australia's native wildlife they have
already contributed to the extinction of
more than a hundred indigenous species
of flora and fauna it's hard to predict
just how many feral pigs there are in
the Daintree but the camera traps
suggest their numbers are increasing at
this moment little is being done to
remove or prevent the spread of pigs so
unless action is taken soon Australia
may lose another of its iconic wildlife
species
you